It can always be a bit nerve-wracking when
you're getting ready to meet a new team.
Even high level executives get nervous when
they're meeting colleagues for the first
time. But it does get easier with the more
experience that you get, because along the
way, you pick up on tools and skills that
make it easier and less scary for you to
introduce yourself and engage with your new
colleagues. You should try to get to know
your colleagues because it's all part of
building your professional network.
One way to do this is to find out which of
your colleagues you'll be working most
closely with.
From there, you can ask if they'd be open to
meeting one on one with you.
That makes it less intimidating when you're
meeting just one on one with one person
versus sitting in a group setting and having
the pressure of the group.
Then when it's just you and the other person,
you can ask more specific questions like
what's their background?
How long have they been with the company?
How do they get this job?
What are their responsibilities?
And then you can ask more specific questions
about how the two of you will be working
together. What kind of projects will you have
together? What kind of communication
preferences does that person have?
Should you set up a weekly cadence or some
other sort of regular update between you and
the other person?
When it comes to meetings with your manager,
they might already have a plan in mind for
how often you'll be meeting with each other.
This might be once a week or every other day
. Regardless of the cadence or how you'll be
meeting, because it might be over video call
or just an audio call, it's really important
that you set up regular touch points between
you and your manager, because this is a way
how you stay on top of your projects and any
updates between the two of you.
It's really easy without regular touch points
for details to fall through the cracks.
If your manager has not yet proposed a
structure for a regular cadence between the
two of you, this is something that you can
take initiative on your own.
Think about what would be most helpful for
you. How often would you like to meet with
your manager?
How often would you like to meet over a video
call versus just an audio call?
How long should these be?
Start putting some thought into this and then
you can propose the cadence to your manager.
Just be ready that they might not be as
available as you'd like them to be.
They're busy with a lot of things going on,
but this is one way to open the door and to
come to a compromise so that you find a
cadence that works for you both.
Again, this is a great way for you to show
initiative and interest in engaging with your
manager. Coming up, we'll talk about tips for
growing your relationship with your manager,
feedback best practices and tips on conflict
resolution in the workplace.